# NaturalCalamityPredictor
(Project done for Microsoft Code-fun-do++)

The aim of this project is to build a working prototype of a technology to predict natural calamity. The calamities like earthquake cannot be predicted beforehand, so we haven't considered such sort of disasters. The disasters under consideration include floods,tornadoes and cyclones. 

IDEA:

We have chosen Dense Neural network and Convolution Neural Network as the back-end of our model. These two algorithms are widely used for classification problem, the later one being particularly useful for working with images. Our idea is to collect the weather data (Temperature, Humidity, Soil moisture, Speed of wind flow etc.) on the days when natural disasters occurred in past. These will be available in Historical datasets. There must be some similarity between the pattern of the specified features for similar kind of hazards.We will train our neural network classifier using this data.Our next step will be to calculate the weather features of next 5-10 days using linear regression based on the data available for last one month. The result will be close to the actual values. If at all any drastic change is there, it may be due to some abnormality of weather. Now, based on the feature value calculated, we will try to predict whether there is any probability of any sort of natural calamity. This will give nearly accurate result, because in most of the cases, the hazards like cyclone or flood show same kind of behavior in weather for a few days. If the probability of each of the classes is less than a threshold value, precaution is not needed. If it is more than the threshold, there may be a chance of occurrence of a calamity.

After such kind of prediction, for cross verification, we can train a CNN(Convolution Neural Network) model with some dataset containing the pictures of different stages of formation of a trough, which may result in a cyclone. If a possibility of disaster is seen using the previous model, we can analyse the satellite images of the specific region's ocean current and try to predict the formation of a trough. This approach can also be useful in a particular case, namely wildfire. Wildfires cannot be predicted, but if they are detected at the earliest, loss of wild lives and greenery can be avoided. By the help of satellite images, we can detect the presence of wildfire in deepest of the forests where modern technology cannot reach.

Our plan is to make these models first and then make a web/mobile app for conveying alert messages to users(Common folks).
